In the last section we learned about the importance of the Dash flag.
In this section, I want to tell you about one last use of the Docker exit command.
And this use of it is probably going to be the most common that you're going to be making use of on
your own personal projects.
A very common thing that you're going to want to do when you are using Docker is to get Shell access
or terminal access to your running container.
In other words, you are going to want to run commands inside of your container without having to rerun
Docker exec, Docker exec, Docker exec again and again all day.
So in this section, I'm going to show you how you can open up a shell or terminal in the context of
your running container.
So here's what we're going to do.
I'm going to flip back over to my terminal.
I'm going to verify that I'm still running that reddest container.
I'm going to open up a second terminal window inside of here.
I'm going to run Docker PS and get my container ID.
And then I'm going to run Docker Exec, dash it.
I'll put the container ID in and then here's the magic I'm going to put in S-H and we'll talk about
what FX is in just a second.
I'm going to run that command and you'll see that I get the little pound over here.
Once I'm in here, I can now start to type out typical commands that I would expect to be able to run
in a Unix environment.
So, for example, I could change my directory to my home directory.
I can list out the files and folders inside there.
Nothing there right now.
Let's try going back to the root directory of Slash and then if I do an RLS, I'll see all the root
files and folders of the container I could execute commands like echo.
Hi there.
I can export variables, environment variables like export B equals five and then echo that.
So essentially when I make use of this Docker exec command with S-H over here, I get full terminal
access inside the context of the container, which is extremely powerful for debugging.
I could even do things like say run the docker cli directly or something, not docker c cli, but read
a cli and that starts up the red is cli.
And then when I'm all done, I can hit control c.
And it looks like nothing's happening so quick shortcut here.
If you ever are in a container and it feels like you can't hit control C to exit you can always try
hitting command DX or excuse me control dx to get out as well.
All right.
So let's talk about what just happened there.
So we ran Docker Exec, which we've seen several times before, and then we did S-H.
So what is S-H?
Well, S-H is the name of a program, and it's a program that is being executed inside of that container.
S-H is a command processor or a shell.
It's something that allows us to type commands in and have them be executed inside that container.
You are already making use of a program very much like S-H on your own computer.
Chances are if you're on MAC OS, you are probably using something like Bash.
If you're on Windows, you're probably using something like Git Bash or PowerShell.
Me personally, I'm making use of Z Shell.
These are all programs that allow you to type commands into your terminal and have them be executed.
And so when we start up S-H inside of our container, that's just another command shell that we can
use to execute commands.
Traditionally, a lot of the different containers that you're going to be working with are probably
going to have the S-H command or the S-H program already included.
Some more complete versions of containers or images are going to also have the bash command processor
as well.
So in some cases you can make use of bash directly.
In vast majority, you're probably going to be able to run the shell inside there to start up a command
prompt and type in some commands.
Okay.
So again, I think that you're probably going to be using Docker exec dash it with FX as the command
very, very often when you start doing your own Docker development.
All right.
So we've spoken a whole bunch around Docker CLI.
Let's take one more break here.
There's just one or two quick topics I want to talk about and we'll start to move on to our next big
topic.